docs: improve "Migrate from Enzyme" grammar and clarity (#988)
testing-library/testing-library-docs: docs/react-testing-library/migrate-from-enzyme.mdx

sidebar_label: Migrate from Enzyme
---

This page is intended for developers who have experience with Enzyme and are
trying to understand how to migrate to React Testing Library. It does not go
into great detail about how to migrate all types of tests, but it does have some
helpful information for those who are comparing Enzyme with React Testing
Library.

## What is React Testing Library?

React Testing Library is part of an open-source project named
[Testing Library](https://github.com/testing-library). There are several other
helpful tools and libraries in the Testing Library project which you can use to
write more concise and useful tests. Besides React Testing Library, here are
some of the project's other libraries that can help you along the way:

- **[@testing-library/jest-dom](https://github.com/testing-library/jest-dom)**:
  `jest-dom` provides a set of custom Jest matchers that you can use to extend

>   Jest. These will make your tests more declarative, clearer to read, and easier

Reviewer: Nit, I'm not a big fan of using "will" in docs.

```suggestion
  Jest. These make your tests more declarative, clearer to read, and easier
```

> Note: you can also use `describe` and `it` blocks with React Testing Library.
> React Testing Library doesn't replace Jest, just Enzyme. We recommend `test`
> because it helps with this:
> [Avoid Nesting When You're Testing](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/avoid-nesting-when-youre-testing).

## Basic Enzyme to React Testing Library migration examples

One thing to keep in mind is that there's not a one-to-one mapping of Enzyme
features to React Testing Library features. Many Enzyme features result in
inefficient tests anyway, so some of the features you're accustomed to with

> Enzyme will need to be left behind (no more need for a `wrapper` variable or

Reviewer: Same

```suggestion
Enzyme need to be left behind (no more need for a `wrapper` variable or
```

`wrapper.update()` calls, etc.).

React Testing Library has helpful queries which let you access your component's
elements and their properties. We'll show some typical Enzyme tests along with
alternatives using React Testing Library.

Let's say we have a `Welcome` component which shows a welcome message. We will
have a look at both Enzyme and React Testing Library tests to learn how we can
test this component:

**React Component**

The following component gets a `name` from `props` and shows a welcome message
in an `h1` element. It also has a text input which users can change to a

> different name, and the template will update accordingly. Check the live version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
different name, and the template updates accordingly. Check the live version
```

})
```

As you can see, the tests are pretty similar. Enzyme's `shallow` renderer
doesn't render sub-components, so React Testing Library's `render` method is
more similar to Enzyme's `mount` method.

In React Testing Library, you don't need to assign the `render` result to a
variable (i.e. `wrapper`). You can simply access the rendered output by calling
functions on the `screen` object. The other good thing to know is that React
Testing Library automatically cleans up the environment after each test so you
don't need to call `cleanup` in an `afterEach` or `beforeEach` function.

The other thing that you might notice is `getByRole` which has `'heading'` as
its argument. `'heading'` is the accessible role of the `h1` element. You can
learn more about them on the [queries documentation page](queries/byrole.mdx).
One of the things people quickly learn to love about Testing Library is how it
encourages you to write more accessible applications (because if it's not
accessible, then it's harder to test).

### Test 2: Input texts must have correct value

> In the component above, the input values will be initialized with the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the component above, the input values are initialized with the
```

```

Cool! It's pretty simple and handy, and the tests are clear enough that we don't
need to talk much about them. Something that you might notice is that the
`<form>` has a `role="form"` attribute, but what is it?

`role` is one of the accessibility-related attributes that is recommended to use
to improve your web application for people with disabilities. Some elements have
default `role` values and you don't need to set one for them, but some others
like `<div>` do not have default `role` values. You can use different approaches
to access the `<div>` element, but we recommend trying to access elements by
their implicit `role` to make sure your component is accessible by people with
disabilities and those using screen readers. [This section](queries/byrole.mdx)
of the query documentation might help you understand the concepts better.

> A `<form>` element must have a `name` attribute in order to have an implicit
> `role` of `'form'` (as required by the specification).

> React Testing Library aims to test the components how users will use them. Users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
React Testing Library aims to test the components how users use them. Users
```

see buttons, headings, forms and other elements by their role, not by their
`id`, `class`, or element tag name. Therefore, when you use React Testing
Library you should avoid accessing the DOM with the `document.querySelector`
API. (You _can_ use it in your tests, but it's not recommended for the reasons
stated in this paragraph.)

> React Testing Library exposes some handy query APIs which will help you access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
React Testing Library exposes some handy query APIs which help you access
```

the component elements efficiently. You can see the
[list of available queries here](queries/about.mdx#types-of-queries). If you're
not sure which query you should use in a given situation, we have a great page
which explains [which query to use](queries/about.mdx#priority), so check it
out!

If you still have a question about which of React Testing Library's queries to
use, then check out [testing-playground.com](https://testing-playground.com) and
the accompanying Chrome extension
**[Testing Playground](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/testing-playground/hejbmebodbijjdhflfknehhcgaklhano)**
which aims to enable developers to find the best query when writing tests. It
also helps you find the best queries to select elements. It allows you to
inspect the element hierarchies in the Chrome Developer Tools and provides you
with suggestions on how to select them, all while encouraging good testing
practices.

## Using act() and wrapper.update()

> When testing asynchronous code in Enzyme, you usually need to call `act()` to

Reviewer: Should this section mention the async `findBy`/`waitFor` queries? 
If you agree, feel free to use this PR for it, or create a new PR later.

Author: I wouldn't think so. This section is really just pointing out a couple of things you _don't_ need to do when using RTL, not raising awareness of its async features in general.

Reviewer: I'm fine with this 👍 thanks for the follow up.

})
```

Nice!

### Triggering class methods in tests (`wrapper.instance()`)

As we already discussed, we recommend against testing implementation details and
things that users will not be aware of. We aim to test and interact with the
component more like how our users would.

> If your test uses \`instance()\` or \`state()\`, know that you're testing
> things that the user couldn't possibly know about or even care about, which

> > will take your tests further from giving you confidence that things will work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> takes your tests further from giving you confidence that things work
```

Author: This is a direct quote from the link below, so I wouldn't want to change it even if it reads better.
